www/docs/options/adapter.md, before:

---
id: adapter
title: Adapter
---

An "*Adapter*" in NextAuth.js is the thing that connects your application to whatever database or backend system you want to use to store data for user accounts, sessions, etc.

*Adapters are considered advanced usage are are not fully documented yet.*

## TypeORM (Default)

NextAuth.js comes with a default adapter that uses [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/) so that it can be used with many different databases without any further configuration, you simply add the database driver you want to use to your project and tell  NextAuth.js to use it.

The default adapter comes with predefined models for **Users**, **Sessions**, **Account Linking** and **Verification Emails**. You can extend or replace the default models and schemas, or even provide your adapter to handle reading/writing from the database (or from multiple databases).

If you have an existing database / user management system or want to use a database that isn't supported out of the box you can create and pass your own adapter to handle actions like `createAccount`, `deleteAccount`, (etc) and do not have to use the built in models.

If you are using a database that is not supported out of the box, or if you want to use  NextAuth.js with an existing database, or have a more complex setup with accounts and sessions spread across different systems then you can pass your own methods to be called for user and session creation / deletion (etc).

The default adapter is the TypeORM adapter, the following configuration options are exactly equivalent.

```javascript
provider: Adapters.Default({
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
})
```

```javascript
provider: Adapters.TypeORM({
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
})
```

```javascript
database: {
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
}
```

## Creating your own adapter

It is possible to create your own adapter, in fact someone has already done this for a [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) backend.

Using a custom adapter you can connect to any database backend (or even several different databases!).

How to do write your own adapter is not yet documented.

If you are interested in creating an adapter, do get in touch with the development team on GitHub.

Commit message:

Adding to documentation
* Added REST API docs to sidebar
* Added documentation for the Apple Provider (WIP)
* Added clarity to documentation of options
* Added links to footer

www/docs/options/adapter.md, after:

---
id: adapter
title: Database Adapters
---

An "*Adapter*" in NextAuth.js is the thing that connects your application to whatever database or backend system you want to use to store data for user accounts, sessions, etc.

*The **adapter** option is currently considered advanced usage intended for use by NextAuth.js contributors.*

## TypeORM (Default)

NextAuth.js comes with a default adapter that uses [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/) so that it can be used with many different databases without any further configuration, you simply add the database driver you want to use to your project and tell  NextAuth.js to use it.

The default adapter comes with predefined models for **Users**, **Sessions**, **Account Linking** and **Verification Emails**. You can extend or replace the default models and schemas, or even provide your adapter to handle reading/writing from the database (or from multiple databases).

If you have an existing database / user management system or want to use a database that isn't supported out of the box you can create and pass your own adapter to handle actions like `createAccount`, `deleteAccount`, (etc) and do not have to use the built in models.

If you are using a database that is not supported out of the box, or if you want to use  NextAuth.js with an existing database, or have a more complex setup with accounts and sessions spread across different systems then you can pass your own methods to be called for user and session creation / deletion (etc).

The default adapter is the TypeORM adapter, the following configuration options are exactly equivalent.

```javascript
provider: Adapters.Default({
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
})
```

```javascript
provider: Adapters.TypeORM({
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
})
```

```javascript
database: {
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
}
```

## Creating your own adapter

It is possible to create your own adapter, one has already been created for a [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) backend.

Using a custom adapter you can connect to any database backend or even several different databases.

How to do write your own adapter is not yet convered in documentation and it is not a supported option.
