.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Report a defect with NextAuth.js
labels: bug
assignees: ""
---

## Description 🐜

Please provide a clear and concise description of the bug in NextAuth.js.

🚧 – _Do not report bugs with your own project here, ask for help [by raising a question instead](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues/new?assignees=&labels=question&template=question.md) - this helps us a lot with administration overhead._

## How to reproduce ☕️

🚧 – _If you don't provide any way to reproduce the bug the issue is at risk of being closed. Please help the maintainers of this library providing detailed steps on how to reproduce the bug._

## Screenshots / Logs 📽

**Help us help you**. The bug you found can be addressed much faster if you provide contextual screenshots or screen recordings showcasing the issue.

See [Kap](https://getkap.co/) for a good, easy-to-use, cross-paltform screen recording tool.

## Environment 🖥

Pleaser run this command:

```
$ npx envinfo --system --binaries --browsers --npmPackages "{next-auth}"
```

and paste the output here.

## Contributing 🙌🏽

It takes a lot of work 🏋🏻‍♀️ maintaining a library like `next-auth`, any contribution is more than welcome 💚

In case you're willing to help fix this bug please let us know here and we'll reach you 😊 . Otherwise you can have a look at the issues labelled with [`"good first issue"`](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and pick any of them.

Commit message:

chore(github): fix typos on issue templates (#1858)
* chore(github): fix typos on issue templates...

* chore(github): use statements rather than comments

on the PR template

* chore(github): Typescript -> TypeScript

* chore(github): add links to Codesanbox on issue templates

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Balázs Orbán <info@balazsorban.com>

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Report a defect with NextAuth.js
labels: bug
assignees: ""
---

## Description 🐜

Please provide a clear and concise description of the bug in NextAuth.js.

🚧 – _Do not report bugs with your own project here; ask for help [by raising a question instead](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues/new?assignees=&labels=question&template=question.md) - this helps us a lot with administration overhead._

## How to reproduce ☕️

We encourage you to use one of the templates set up on **CodeSandbox** to reproduce your issue:

- [`next-auth-example`](https://codesandbox.io/s/next-auth-example-1kktb)
- [`next-auth-typescript-example`](https://codesandbox.io/s/next-auth-typescript-example-se32w)

🚧 – _If you don't provide any way to reproduce the bug, the issue is at risk of being closed._

## Screenshots / Logs 📽

**Help us help you**. We can address the bug you found much faster if you provide contextual screenshots or screen recordings showcasing the issue.

See [Kap](https://getkap.co/) for a good, easy-to-use, cross-platform screen recording tool.

## Environment 🖥

Please run this command:

```
$ npx envinfo --system --binaries --browsers --npmPackages "{next-auth}"
```

and paste the output here.

## Contributing 🙌🏽

It takes a lot of work 🏋🏻‍♀️ maintaining a library like `next-auth`; any contribution is more than welcome 💚

In case you're willing to help fix this bug, please let us know here, and we'll reach you 😊 . Otherwise, you can have a look at the issues labelled with [`"good first issue"`](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and pick any of them.
