.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, before:

---
name: Feature request
about: Suggest an idea for NextAuth.js
labels: enhancement
assignees: ""
---

## Summary 💭

A clear and concise summary of the feature being proposed.

## Description 📓

Please provide a more in-depth description of the feature proposed.

Make sure you provide plenty of [links]() to external documentation and inline code examples like so:

```js
function myAwesomeNextAuthFeature() {
  return 💚
}
```

Take time thinking what you want to say and help us understand your proposal making sure that this description contains:

- **purpose of the feature**
- **potential problems**
- **potential alternatives**

## Contributing 🙌🏽

It takes a lot of work 🏋🏻‍♀️ maintaining a library like `next-auth`, any contribution is more than welcome 💚

In case you're willing to help fix this bug please let us know here and we'll reach you 😊 . Otherwise you can have a look at the issues labelled with [`"good first issue"`](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and pick any of them.

Commit message:

chore(github): fix typos on issue templates (#1858)
* chore(github): fix typos on issue templates...

* chore(github): use statements rather than comments

on the PR template

* chore(github): Typescript -> TypeScript

* chore(github): add links to Codesanbox on issue templates

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Balázs Orbán <info@balazsorban.com>

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, after:

---
name: Feature request
about: Suggest an idea for NextAuth.js
labels: enhancement
assignees: ""
---

## Summary 💭

A clear and concise summary of the feature being proposed.

## Description 📓

Please provide a more in-depth description of the feature proposed.

Make sure you provide plenty of [links]() to external documentation and inline code examples like so:

```js
function myAwesomeNextAuthFeature() {
  return 💚
}
```

Take time thinking about what you want to say and help us understand your proposal making sure that this description contains:

- **purpose of the feature**
- **potential problems**
- **potential alternatives**

You can use one of the templates set up on **CodeSandbox** to better illustrate your idea:

- [`next-auth-example`](https://codesandbox.io/s/next-auth-example-1kktb)
- [`next-auth-typescript-example`](https://codesandbox.io/s/next-auth-typescript-example-se32w)

## Contributing 🙌🏽

It takes a lot of work 🏋🏻‍♀️ maintaining a library like `next-auth`; any contribution is more than welcome 💚

In case you're willing to help implement this feature, please let us know here, and we'll reach you 😊 . Otherwise, you can have a look at the issues labelled with [`"good first issue"`](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and pick any of them.
