.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/question.md, before:

---
name: Question
about: Ask a question about NextAuth.js or for help using it
labels: question
assignees: ""
---

## Question 💬

Please provide an in-depth description of the question you have.

Make sure you [link]() to external documentation if necessary and provide inline code examples like so:

```js
function myAwesomeNextAuthFeature() {
  return 💚
}
```

**NOTE:** Questions will be converted to Discussions. You can find them [here](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/discussions)!

## How to reproduce ☕️

Help us help you by explaining here how to reproduce the doubt you're facing on how to use NextAuth.

## Contributing 🙌🏽

It takes a lot of work 🏋🏻‍♀️ maintaining a library like `next-auth`, any contribution is more than welcome 💚

In case you're willing to help fix this bug please let us know here and we'll reach you 😊 . Otherwise you can have a look at the issues labelled with [`"good first issue"`](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and pick any of them.

Commit message:

chore(github): fix typos on issue templates (#1858)
* chore(github): fix typos on issue templates...

* chore(github): use statements rather than comments

on the PR template

* chore(github): Typescript -> TypeScript

* chore(github): add links to Codesanbox on issue templates

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Balázs Orbán <info@balazsorban.com>

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/question.md, after:

---
name: Question
about: Ask a question about NextAuth.js or for help using it
labels: question
assignees: ""
---

## Question 💬

Please provide an in-depth description of the question you have.

Make sure you [link]() to external documentation if necessary and provide inline code examples like so:

```js
function myAwesomeNextAuthFeature() {
  return 💚
}
```

**NOTE:** Questions will be converted to Discussions. You can find them [here](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/discussions)!

## How to reproduce ☕️

We encourage you to use the template set-up on **CodeSandbox** as a playground to represent your question or doubt:

- [`next-auth-example`](https://codesandbox.io/s/next-auth-example-1kktb)

## Contributing 🙌🏽

It takes a lot of work 🏋🏻‍♀️ maintaining a library like `next-auth`; any contribution is more than welcome 💚

In case you're willing to help answer this question, please let us know here, and we'll reach you 😊 . Otherwise, you can have a look at the issues labelled with [`"good first issue"`](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and pick any of them.
