.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/typescript.md, before:

---
name: Typescript
about: Ask a question about NextAuth.js Typescript integration
labels:
  - question
  - TypeScript
assignees:
  - lluia
  - balazsorban44
---

## Question 💬

Please provide an in-depth description of the question you have when using NextAuth.js on a Typescript project or when consuming the built-in types for `next-auth`.

Make sure you [link]() to external documentation if necessary and provide inline code examples like so:

```js
function myAwesomeNextAuthFeature() {
  return 💚
}
```

**NOTE:** Questions will be converted to Discussions. You can find them [here](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/discussions)!

## How to reproduce ☕️

Help us help you by explaining here how to reproduce the doubt you're facing on how to use NextAuth.

In case the types are wrong or could be improved, past screenshots here showcasing the complains/problems reported by the TS server.

## Contributing 🙌🏽

It takes a lot of work 🏋🏻‍♀️ maintaining a library like `next-auth`, any contribution is more than welcome 💚

In case you're willing to help fix this bug please let us know here and we'll reach you 😊 . Otherwise you can have a look at the issues labelled with [`"good first issue"`](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and pick any of them.

Commit message:

chore(github): fix typos on issue templates (#1858)
* chore(github): fix typos on issue templates...

* chore(github): use statements rather than comments

on the PR template

* chore(github): Typescript -> TypeScript

* chore(github): add links to Codesanbox on issue templates

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Balázs Orbán <info@balazsorban.com>

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/typescript.md, after:

---
name: TypeScript
about: Ask a question about NextAuth.js TypeScript integration
labels:
  - question
  - TypeScript
assignees:
  - lluia
  - balazsorban44
---

## Question 💬

Please provide an in-depth description of the question you have when using NextAuth.js on a Typescript project or when consuming the built-in types for `next-auth`.

Make sure you [link]() to external documentation if necessary and provide inline code examples like so:

```js
function myAwesomeNextAuthFeature() {
  return 💚
}
```

**NOTE:** Questions will be converted to Discussions. You can find them [here](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/discussions)!

## How to reproduce ☕️

We encourage you to use the template set-up on **CodeSandbox** as a playground to represent your question or doubt:

- [`next-auth-typescript-example`](https://codesandbox.io/s/next-auth-typescript-example-se32w)

## Contributing 🙌🏽

It takes a lot of work 🏋🏻‍♀️ maintaining a library like `next-auth`; any contribution is more than welcome 💚

In case you're willing to help answer this TypeScript question, please let us know here, and we'll reach you 😊 . Otherwise, you can have a look at the issues labelled with [`"good first issue"`](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and pick any of them.
