www/docs/v1/auth-v1.md, before:

---
id: auth-v1
title: Authentication
---

# Auth

To use oAuth you need to configure environment variables with ID and secret and configure the service accordingly.

This project comes pre-configured to handle Facebook, Google and Twitter oAuth if you provide the ID and secret for the service via environment variables.

You can pass them on the command line or put them in `.env` file which will be loaded at startup (see [.env.example](https://github.com/iaincollins/next-auth/blob/master/example/.env.example) for an example).

If you want to add new oAuth providers (such as GitHub), you will need to:

* Add the oauth provider configuration in next-auth.providers.js
* Add a field to your User model (in 'index.js') with the name of the provider
* Configure the service to point to your website (as in the examples below)
* Specify the environment variables at run time

## Configuring your account

These guides are approximate as exactly how to configure oAuth varies for each provider and tends to change when they update their developer portals, which can be quite often. If you can't see the options mentioned, try exploring the UI in the developer portal or configuration pages.

Due to the volume of requests I'm not usually able to help with specific problems but pull requests with improved or extended instructions are very welcome.

Tip: Twitter's oAuth implementation is the most permissive and easiest to configure, you may want to start with it. If you run into problems, you might 
want to check email sign-in is working as baseline.

Please note that Facebook oAuth cannot be used to sign in to 'localhost' and that if you want to sign in to `localhost` with Google+ you must specifically add something like `http://localhost:3000/auth/oauth/google/callback` as a authorized redirect URI for your application.

### Facebook Login

Environment variables:

* FACEBOOK_ID
* FACEBOOK_SECRET

Configuration steps:

1. Go to [Facebook Developers](https://developers.facebook.com/)
2. Click **Apps > Create a New App** in the navigation bar
3. Enter *Display Name*, then choose a category, then click **Create app**
5. Specify *App ID* as the **FACEBOOK_ID** Config Variable
6. Specify *App Secret* as the **FACEBOOK_SECRET** Config Variable
7. Click on *Settings* on the sidebar, then click **+ Add Platform**
8. Select **Website**
9. Enable 'Client OAuth Login' and 'Web OAuth Login'
10. list`http://your-server.example.com/auth/oauth/facebook/callback` under 'Valid OAuth redirect URIs'
11. List your sites domain under 'domains'

### Google+

Environment variables:

* GOOGLE_ID
* GOOGLE_SECRET

Configuration steps:

1. Visit [Google Cloud Console](https://cloud.google.com/console/project)
2. Click the **CREATE PROJECT** button, enter a *Project Name* and click **CREATE**
3. Then select *APIs* then *Credentials* 
4. Select **Create new oAuth Client ID** and enter the following:
 - **Application Type**: Web Application
 - **Authorized Javascript origins**: `http://your-server.example.com/`
 - **Authorized redirect URI**: `http://your-server.example.com/auth/oauth/google/callback`
5. Specify *Client ID* as the **GOOGLE_ID** Config Variable
6. Specify *Client Secret* as the **GOOGLE_SECRET** Config Variable
7. Enable Google+ on the project - if you don't, sign in with Google+ will fail!

### Twitter 

Environment variables:

* TWITTER_KEY
* TWITTER_SECRET
  
Configuration steps:

1. Sign in at [https://apps.twitter.com](https://apps.twitter.com/)
2. Click **Create a new application**
3. Enter your application name, website and description
4. For **Callback URL**: `http://your-server.example.com/auth/oauth/twitter/callback`
5. Go to **Settings** tab
6. Under *Application Type* select **Read and Write** access
7. Check the box **Allow this application to be used to Sign in with Twitter**
8. Click **Update this Twitter's applications settings**
9. Specify *Consumer Key* as the **TWITTER_KEY** Config Variable
10. Specify *Consumer Secret* as the **TWITTER_SECRET** Config Variable

Commit message:

Updates to documentation and homepage CSS

www/docs/v1/auth-v1.md, after:

---
id: auth-v1
title: Authentication
---

:::warning
This documentation is for version 1 which is no longer supported now [NextAuth.js v2](/getting-started/introduction) is available.
:::

# Auth

To use oAuth you need to configure environment variables with ID and secret and configure the service accordingly.

This project comes pre-configured to handle Facebook, Google and Twitter oAuth if you provide the ID and secret for the service via environment variables.

You can pass them on the command line or put them in `.env` file which will be loaded at startup (see [.env.example](https://github.com/iaincollins/next-auth/blob/master/example/.env.example) for an example).

If you want to add new oAuth providers (such as GitHub), you will need to:

* Add the oauth provider configuration in next-auth.providers.js
* Add a field to your User model (in 'index.js') with the name of the provider
* Configure the service to point to your website (as in the examples below)
* Specify the environment variables at run time

## Configuring your account

These guides are approximate as exactly how to configure oAuth varies for each provider and tends to change when they update their developer portals, which can be quite often. If you can't see the options mentioned, try exploring the UI in the developer portal or configuration pages.

Due to the volume of requests I'm not usually able to help with specific problems but pull requests with improved or extended instructions are very welcome.

Tip: Twitter's oAuth implementation is the most permissive and easiest to configure, you may want to start with it. If you run into problems, you might 
want to check email sign-in is working as baseline.

Please note that Facebook oAuth cannot be used to sign in to 'localhost' and that if you want to sign in to `localhost` with Google+ you must specifically add something like `http://localhost:3000/auth/oauth/google/callback` as a authorized redirect URI for your application.

### Facebook Login

Environment variables:

* FACEBOOK_ID
* FACEBOOK_SECRET

Configuration steps:

1. Go to [Facebook Developers](https://developers.facebook.com/)
2. Click **Apps > Create a New App** in the navigation bar
3. Enter *Display Name*, then choose a category, then click **Create app**
5. Specify *App ID* as the **FACEBOOK_ID** Config Variable
6. Specify *App Secret* as the **FACEBOOK_SECRET** Config Variable
7. Click on *Settings* on the sidebar, then click **+ Add Platform**
8. Select **Website**
9. Enable 'Client OAuth Login' and 'Web OAuth Login'
10. list`http://your-server.example.com/auth/oauth/facebook/callback` under 'Valid OAuth redirect URIs'
11. List your sites domain under 'domains'

### Google+

Environment variables:

* GOOGLE_ID
* GOOGLE_SECRET

Configuration steps:

1. Visit [Google Cloud Console](https://cloud.google.com/console/project)
2. Click the **CREATE PROJECT** button, enter a *Project Name* and click **CREATE**
3. Then select *APIs* then *Credentials* 
4. Select **Create new oAuth Client ID** and enter the following:
 - **Application Type**: Web Application
 - **Authorized Javascript origins**: `http://your-server.example.com/`
 - **Authorized redirect URI**: `http://your-server.example.com/auth/oauth/google/callback`
5. Specify *Client ID* as the **GOOGLE_ID** Config Variable
6. Specify *Client Secret* as the **GOOGLE_SECRET** Config Variable
7. Enable Google+ on the project - if you don't, sign in with Google+ will fail!

### Twitter 

Environment variables:

* TWITTER_KEY
* TWITTER_SECRET
  
Configuration steps:

1. Sign in at [https://apps.twitter.com](https://apps.twitter.com/)
2. Click **Create a new application**
3. Enter your application name, website and description
4. For **Callback URL**: `http://your-server.example.com/auth/oauth/twitter/callback`
5. Go to **Settings** tab
6. Under *Application Type* select **Read and Write** access
7. Check the box **Allow this application to be used to Sign in with Twitter**
8. Click **Update this Twitter's applications settings**
9. Specify *Consumer Key* as the **TWITTER_KEY** Config Variable
10. Specify *Consumer Secret* as the **TWITTER_SECRET** Config Variable
