www/docs/getting-started/example.md, before:

---
id: example
title: Example
---

## Example with live demo

The easiest way to get started is to clone the example Next.js application from the [next-auth-example](https://github.com/iaincollins/next-auth-example) repository and to the instructions in the [README](https://github.com/iaincollins/next-auth-example/blob/main/README.md).

You can find a live demo of the example project at [next-auth-example.now.sh](https://next-auth-example.now.sh)

## How to use NextAuth.js

*The examples below show how to add authentication with NextAuth.js to an existing Next.js project.*

### Add API route

To add NextAuth.js to a project, first create a file called `[...nextauth].js` in `pages/api/auth`.

```javascript title="pages/api/auth/[...nextauth].js"
import NextAuth from 'next-auth'
import Providers from 'next-auth/providers'

const options = {
  site: process.env.SITE || 'http://localhost:3000',

  // Configure one or more authentication providers
  providers: [
    Providers.GitHub({
      clientId: process.env.GITHUB_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.GITHUB_SECRET
    }),
  ],

  // A database is optional, but required to persist accounts in a database
  database: process.env.DATABASE_URL,
}

export default (req, res) => NextAuth(req, res, options)
```

All requests to `/api/auth/*` (signin, callback, signout, etc) will automatically be handed by NextAuth.js.

:::tip
See the [options documentation](/configuration/options) for how to configure providers, databases and other options.
:::

### Add React Hook

The `useSession()` React Hook in the NextAuth.js client is the easiest way to check if someone is signed in.

```jsx title="pages/index.js"
import React from 'react'
import { useSession } from 'next-auth/client'

export default () => {
  const [ session, loading ] = useSession()

  return <p>
    {!session && <>
      Not signed in <br/>
      <a href="/api/auth/signin">Sign in</a>
    </>}
    {session && <>
      Signed in as {session.user.email} <br/>
      <a href="/api/auth/signout">Sign out</a>
    </>}
  </p>
}
```

*That's all the code you need to add authentication to a project!*

:::tip
Check out the [client documentation](/getting-started/client) to see how you can improve the user experience and page performance by using the NextAuth.js client.
:::

Commit message:

Improve CSRF security for all routes
Includes breaking changes for v3 and updates to documentation.

If using the client, the only required change should be setting the NEXTAUTH_URL environment variable.

www/docs/getting-started/example.md, after:

---
id: example
title: Example
---

## Example project

The easiest way to get started is to clone the example Next.js application from the [next-auth-example](https://github.com/iaincollins/next-auth-example) repository and to the instructions in the [README](https://github.com/iaincollins/next-auth-example/blob/main/README.md).

You can find a live demo of the example project at [next-auth-example.now.sh](https://next-auth-example.now.sh)

## Adding NextAuth.js to an existing project

*The examples code below shows how to add authentication with NextAuth.js to an existing Next.js project.*

### Add API route

To add NextAuth.js to a project, first create a file called `[...nextauth].js` in `pages/api/auth`.

```javascript title="pages/api/auth/[...nextauth].js"
import NextAuth from 'next-auth'
import Providers from 'next-auth/providers'

const options = {
  // Configure one or more authentication providers
  providers: [
    Providers.GitHub({
      clientId: process.env.GITHUB_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.GITHUB_SECRET
    }),
    // ...add more providers here
  ],

  // A database is optional, but required to persist accounts in a database
  database: process.env.DATABASE_URL,
}

export default (req, res) => NextAuth(req, res, options)
```

All requests to `/api/auth/*` (signin, callback, signout, etc) will automatically be handed by NextAuth.js.

:::tip
See the [options documentation](/configuration/options) for how to configure providers, databases and other options.
:::

### Add React Hook

The `useSession()` React Hook in the NextAuth.js client is the easiest way to check if someone is signed in.

```jsx title="pages/index.js"
import React from 'react'
import { useSession } from 'next-auth/client'

export default () => {
  const [ session, loading ] = useSession()

  return <p>
    {!session && <>
      Not signed in <br/>
      <a href="/api/auth/signin">Sign in</a>
    </>}
    {session && <>
      Signed in as {session.user.email} <br/>
      <a href="/api/auth/signout">Sign out</a>
    </>}
  </p>
}
```

*That's all the code you need to add authentication to a project!*

### Environment variables

When deploying to production, you should also set the `NEXTAUTH_URL` environment variable to the canonical URL of your site. This is required for sign in and to access sessions from API routes and server side functions.

e.g. `NEXTAUTH_URL=https://example.com`

:::note
Providers like [Vercel](https://vercel.com) provide a value `VERCEL_URL` which is similar (and is used as a fallback) but is not identical as it represents the instance of the site not the canonical URL.
:::


:::tip
Check out the [client documentation](/getting-started/client) to see how you can improve the user experience and page performance by using the NextAuth.js client.
:::
