www/docs/getting-started/introduction.md, before:

---
id: introduction
title: Introduction
---

## About NextAuth.js

NextAuth.js is complete open source authentication solution for [Next.js](http://nextjs.org/) applications.

It is designed from the ground up to support Next.js and Serverless.

[Check out the example](/getting-started/example) to see how easy it is to use NextAuth.js for authentication.

## Features

### Authentication

* Designed to work with any 0Auth service, it supports 0Auth 1.0, 1.0A and 2.0
* Built-in support for [many popular 0Auth sign-in services](/configuration/providers)
* Supports email / passwordless authentication

### Own your own data

* An open source solution that allows you to keep control of your data
* Supports Bring Your Own Database (BYOD) and can be used with any database
* Built-in support for for [MySQL, MariaDB, Postgres, MongoDB and SQLite](/configuration/database)

### Secure by default

* Designed to be secure by default and promote best practice for safeguarding user data
* Attempts to implement the latest guidance published by [Open Web Application Security Project](https://owasp.org/)

Security focused features include CSRF protection, use of signed cookies, cookie prefixes, secure cookies, HTTP only, host only and secure only cookies and promoting passwordless sign-in.

## Acknowledgement

[NextAuth.js 2.0 is possible thanks to its contributors.](/contributors)

## Getting started

[Check out the example to get started.](/getting-started/example)

Commit message:

Adding to documentation
* Added REST API docs to sidebar
* Added documentation for the Apple Provider (WIP)
* Added clarity to documentation of options
* Added links to footer

www/docs/getting-started/introduction.md, after:

---
id: introduction
title: Introduction
---

:::note
This documentation refers to the [next-auth@beta](https://www.npmjs.com/package/next-auth/v/beta), the beta release of NextAuth.js v2.0.
:::

## About NextAuth.js

NextAuth.js is complete open source authentication solution for [Next.js](http://nextjs.org/) applications.

It is designed from the ground up to support Next.js and Serverless.

[Check out the example](/getting-started/example) to see how easy it is to use NextAuth.js for authentication.

## Features

### Authentication

* Designed to work with any 0Auth service, it supports 0Auth 1.0, 1.0A and 2.0
* Built-in support for [many popular 0Auth sign-in services](/configuration/providers)
* Supports email / passwordless authentication

### Own your own data

* An open source solution that allows you to keep control of your data
* Supports Bring Your Own Database (BYOD) and can be used with any database
* Built-in support for for [MySQL, MariaDB, Postgres, MongoDB and SQLite](/configuration/database)

### Secure by default

* Designed to be secure by default and promote best practice for safeguarding user data
* Attempts to implement the latest guidance published by [Open Web Application Security Project](https://owasp.org/)

Security focused features include CSRF protection, use of signed cookies, cookie prefixes, secure cookies, HTTP only, host only and secure only cookies and promoting passwordless sign-in.

## Acknowledgement

[NextAuth.js 2.0 is possible thanks to its contributors.](/contributors)

## Getting started

[Check out the example to get started.](/getting-started/example)
