www/docs/providers/azure-ad-b2c.md, before:

---
id: azure-ad-b2c
title: Azure Active Directory B2C
---

## Documentation

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow

## Configuration

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/tutorial-create-tenant

## Example
- In https://portal.azure.com/ -> Azure Active Directory create a new App Registration.
- Make sure to remember / copy
  - Application (client) ID
  - Directory (tenant) ID
- When asked for a redirection URL, use http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/azure-ad-b2c
- Create a new secret and remember / copy its value immediately, it will disappear.

In `.env.local` create the follwing entries:

```
AZURE_CLIENT_ID=<copy Application (client) ID here> 
AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=<copy generated secret value here>
AZURE_TENANT_ID=<copy the tenant id here>
```

In `pages/api/auth/[...nextauth].js` find or add the AZURE entries:
  
```js
import Providers from 'next-auth/providers';
...
providers: [
  Providers.AzureADB2C({
    clientId: process.env.AZURE_CLIENT_ID,
    clientSecret: process.env.AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET,
    scope: 'offline_access User.Read',
    tenantId: process.env.AZURE_TENANT_ID,
  }),
]
...

```

Commit message:

docs(provider): link to providers' source code (#1955)

www/docs/providers/azure-ad-b2c.md, after:

---
id: azure-ad-b2c
title: Azure Active Directory B2C
---

## Documentation

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow

## Configuration

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/tutorial-create-tenant

## Options

The **Azure Active Directory Provider** comes with a set of default options:

- [Azure Active Directory Provider options](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/blob/main/src/providers/azure-ad-b2c.js)

You can override any of the options to suit your own use case.

## Example

- In https://portal.azure.com/ -> Azure Active Directory create a new App Registration.
- Make sure to remember / copy
  - Application (client) ID
  - Directory (tenant) ID
- When asked for a redirection URL, use http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/azure-ad-b2c
- Create a new secret and remember / copy its value immediately, it will disappear.

In `.env.local` create the follwing entries:

```
AZURE_CLIENT_ID=<copy Application (client) ID here>
AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=<copy generated secret value here>
AZURE_TENANT_ID=<copy the tenant id here>
```

In `pages/api/auth/[...nextauth].js` find or add the AZURE entries:

```js
import Providers from 'next-auth/providers';
...
providers: [
  Providers.AzureADB2C({
    clientId: process.env.AZURE_CLIENT_ID,
    clientSecret: process.env.AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET,
    scope: 'offline_access User.Read',
    tenantId: process.env.AZURE_TENANT_ID,
  }),
]
...

```
