docs/docs/tutorials/creating-a-database-adapter.md, before:

---
id: creating-a-database-adapter
title: Create an adapter
---

Using a custom adapter you can connect to any database back-end or even several different databases. Official adapters created and maintained by our community can be found in the [adapters](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/tree/main/packages) packages. Feel free to add a custom adapter from your project to the repository, or even become a maintainer of a certain adapter. Custom adapters can still be created and used in a project without being added to the repository.

## How to create an adapter

_See the code below for practical example._

### Example code

```ts
/** @return { import("next-auth/adapters").Adapter } */
export default function MyAdapter(client, options = {}) {
  return {
    async createUser(user) {
      return
    },
    async getUser(id) {
      return
    },
    async getUserByEmail(email) {
      return
    },
    async getUserByAccount({ providerAccountId, provider }) {
      return
    },
    async updateUser(user) {
      return
    },
    async deleteUser(userId) {
      return
    },
    async linkAccount(account) {
      return
    },
    async unlinkAccount({ providerAccountId, provider }) {
      return
    },
    async createSession({ sessionToken, userId, expires }) {
      return
    },
    async getSessionAndUser(sessionToken) {
      return
    },
    async updateSession({ sessionToken }) {
      return
    },
    async deleteSession(sessionToken) {
      return
    },
    async createVerificationToken({ identifier, expires, token }) {
      return
    },
    async useVerificationToken({ identifier, token }) {
      return
    },
  }
}
```

### Required methods

These methods are required for all sign in flows:

- `createUser`
- `getUser`
- `getUserByEmail`
- `getUserByAccount`
- `linkAccount`
- `createSession`
- `getSessionAndUser`
- `updateSession`
- `deleteSession`
- `updateUser`

These methods are required to support email / passwordless sign in:

- `createVerificationToken`
- `useVerificationToken`

### Unimplemented methods

These methods will be required in a future release, but are not yet invoked:

- `deleteUser`
- `unlinkAccount`

Commit message:

docs: Add some more context to the adapters page (#4303)
Link the models to the adapters page to provide some context about what is passed into each function.

Co-authored-by: Nico Domino <yo@ndo.dev>

docs/docs/tutorials/creating-a-database-adapter.md, after:

---
id: creating-a-database-adapter
title: Create an adapter
---

Using a custom adapter you can connect to any database back-end or even several different databases. Official adapters created and maintained by our community can be found in the [adapters](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/tree/main/packages) packages. Feel free to add a custom adapter from your project to the repository, or even become a maintainer of a certain adapter. Custom adapters can still be created and used in a project without being added to the repository.

## How to create an adapter

For more information about the data these methods need to manage see [models](/adapters/models).

_See the code below for practical example._

### Example code

```ts
/** @return { import("next-auth/adapters").Adapter } */
export default function MyAdapter(client, options = {}) {
  return {
    async createUser(user) {
      return
    },
    async getUser(id) {
      return
    },
    async getUserByEmail(email) {
      return
    },
    async getUserByAccount({ providerAccountId, provider }) {
      return
    },
    async updateUser(user) {
      return
    },
    async deleteUser(userId) {
      return
    },
    async linkAccount(account) {
      return
    },
    async unlinkAccount({ providerAccountId, provider }) {
      return
    },
    async createSession({ sessionToken, userId, expires }) {
      return
    },
    async getSessionAndUser(sessionToken) {
      return
    },
    async updateSession({ sessionToken }) {
      return
    },
    async deleteSession(sessionToken) {
      return
    },
    async createVerificationToken({ identifier, expires, token }) {
      return
    },
    async useVerificationToken({ identifier, token }) {
      return
    },
  }
}
```

### Required methods

These methods are required for all sign in flows:

- `createUser`
- `getUser`
- `getUserByEmail`
- `getUserByAccount`
- `linkAccount`
- `createSession`
- `getSessionAndUser`
- `updateSession`
- `deleteSession`
- `updateUser`

These methods are required to support email / passwordless sign in:

- `createVerificationToken`
- `useVerificationToken`

### Unimplemented methods

These methods will be required in a future release, but are not yet invoked:

- `deleteUser`
- `unlinkAccount`
